### Name: Greere Ioan Stefan

# Proiect Etapa 1 - J. POO Morgan Chase & Co.

## Description
This project represents the first stage of a larger project which involves implementing a banking application. In essence, the concepts are similar to real-life scenarios. The bank has multiple users, each with associated accounts, and each account, in turn, having attached cards through which various payments can be made. This leads to different types of accounts or cards, as well as transactions, other expense reports, as well as various payment methods, account creation, or even deletion. These requests to the bank follow well-established rules and are managed by commands (assumed to be generated by AI), which are processed and executed step by step. Furthermore, data is formatted in JSON files, from which they are retrieved and loaded into different classes that interact to run the actual banking application.

## Package and File Structure

### Package "fileio"
This package contains the main classes used to read data from input files, detailing users, exchange rates, as well as the commands that will be executed step by step.

### Package "users"
This package contains two very important classes:

 - BankSingleton: Represents the bank itself, containing a hashMap with all users, identified by email and various methods to return users based on known data such as an account's IBAN, card, etc. This class is also a Singleton, allowing access to the bank's users at any time. Additionally, there is a method to retrieve all users from the input and store them in this bank.
 - User: Represents a regular user's class, with all necessary data, as well as methods to return various details the user contains, methods for creating an account, or even deleting one.

### Package "accounts"
This package contains the necessary data for accounts. Given that there are multiple types of accounts, there is an abstract class through which the specific types of accounts will be created.

### Package "cards"
This package contains classes for cards. In the same style as for accounts, because there are various types of cards, there is an abstract class from which specific subclasses for each card type derive. Additionally, a Factory Pattern has been implemented for creating specific card types based on the command name.

### Package "commands"
In this package, there are classes for each command executed by the application. We start from an interface that contains the method for executing a command, which each such command implements. The connection with the output is also done through an abstract class containing the output instance to add if needed a specific result for a command. Thus, commands are taken from the inputData class that contains all commands, and through a Factory Pattern, all commands are generated with their specific classes for each command type. Because each such command has a method that executes the action, it will be very easy to parse them in main and call all commands, and if eventually, a new command needs to be implemented, we only need to create its specific class and add it to the factory (easy to extend code).

### Package "transaction"
The package contains a parent class, from which all existing transaction types derive. Every time we need a specific type of transaction, we create a new object of the respective transaction type that will be added to the related users or accounts.

### Package "rates"
In this package, there is the "ExchangeRateManager" class, a Singleton, containing the exchange rate. It contains methods that create a data structure that will store all the exchange rate reports. There is a method that adds an exchange rate object, used to add all objects from input, which will be registered in the data structure. This data structure is a hashMap that identifies a currency through another hashMap. Thus, for each currency, there is a hashMap representing the exchange rate for a currency exchange, having as a key, the new currency. Also, because we don't have all the links to all types of currencies, there is a method that calculates them by traversing all currencies and making the connections through a leap to another exchange rate.

### Package "main"
Contains the "Main" class, which represents the root of the application, where commands will be retrieved and created, and subsequently executed. Additionally, some "setup" tasks are performed: users are added, exchange rates are calculated, as well as resetting IBAN generators, card numbers, users, and exchange rates.

## Conclusion
By retrieving data from the input files, all actions are processed and all classes interact to produce changes according to commands. The results are then returned as results in JSON files.